[Music]
mojo lacks the confidence of his
intrepid neighbors and not only that his
energy levels are at an all-time low
[Music]
it's been days since he last aid and as
the rainy season wears on food is scarce
ER than ever but not a is determined and
extremely patient
[Music]
she spends hours watching and stalking
potential prey
she even memorizes every warthog den on
her patch
eventually her patience pays off another
warthog this time a huge male with
deadly tusks
she needs to get close before she
attacks the bushes provide the perfect
cover
[Music]
mission accomplished
now she must protect her kill the boar
is as big as she is it takes all her
strength to drag it into cover
[Music]
it's slow an exhausting work
a hidden island is the perfect place to
defend her kill
[Music]
she calls mojo into feast
after the meal a rare opportunity for
mum and her cub to relax
[Music]
seeking to assert himself perhaps the
young male lays claim to the carcass
there are still plenty of leftovers his
mother seems to be content to watch him
feed just so long as he keeps the
family's dinner safely stashed trees
ought to provide secure storage for
hard-won spoils a place beyond the reach
of hyenas and other thieves
it's a juvenile blunder and his timing
could hardly be worse African wild dogs
are formidable pack hunters capable of
killing adult weapons as well as compass
the cats need to move fast
[Music]
right now he is not his mother's
favorite yet for both Cubs this has been
a useful lesson to stay alive you must
stay alert
the pack soon gives up and moves on with
higher water the mother bear has moved
to the Falls where the salmon are most
active but the big male has taken over
the best fishing spot she needs to keep
herself safe but she also needs access
to salmon she cautiously moves closer to
the big male she's probably still a
little unsure of him after their last
encounter
there's lots of salmon swimming through
the Falls now but with the big male so
close by she can't really move around as
freely as she needs to
[Music]
[Applause]
the big male has control of the best
fishing site but due to the closeness of
the mother bear he also seems to be
losing some of his focus then he manages
to grab another salmon
however this one is a male and he lets
it go
the mother bears less fussy right now
but she's unable to take advantage of
the opportunity
neither bear is very happy with the
presence of the other the mother bear
decides to move in and take advantage of
the scraps the big guys left behind
the big male seems annoyed by her
presence so close behind him something
has to give
at this rate neither bear is going to be
successful
the mother is getting more confident
growling at the big male letting him
know she wants him out of there finally
she built up the nerve to storm his
position
[Music]
even though she's much smaller than him
she's not backing down she wants access
to the salmon more than he does
big male tries to intimidate her with
his much larger size
but she holds her nerve refusing to
leave
finally the big males had enough and
moves on to other fishing grounds
now the mother bear as the falls all to
herself
this has been a hard one salmon but I
think there's going to be lots more
where this came from now
hyenas weighing in at up to 80 kilograms
and capable of running at speeds of up
to 60 kilometers per hour the Heiner is
in fact Africa's most successful
predator
often depicted as stupid cowardly and
greedy they have a bad public image but
we're going to debunk the myths
surrounding these misunderstood animals
and explore some of the more positive
character traits of the spotted hyena do
females always lead their clan and what
is it about hyenas that has allowed them
to thrive far from their dim-witted
infamous animated portrayal spotted
hyenas are in fact highly intelligent
animals this is partly thanks to having
evolved an extraordinarily intricate
social structure more similar in many
ways to primates than carnivores like
primates they can solve puzzles and they
even beat chimpanzees and some
problem-solving tests unusual amongst
mammals the female spotted hyenas are
larger than the males and unlike other
carnivores they form large groups or
clans where the females are top of the
pecking order these groups can be up to
100 strong and like a monarchy when the
alpha female dies her daughter will take
the crown with her daughters in turn
inheriting the position below her hyenas
not only recognize rank and social
standing but they can identify family
members as distant as their great aunts
helping them form alliances within the
clan in a way that is more typically
seen in the most intelligent of animals
lovingly nursing and breastfeeding their
young for one to two years devoted
mother hyenas
also spent several hours playing and
wrestling with their pups each day this
kind of long-term bonding is again more
often found in primate society that
amongst carnivores
everyone knows that hyenas may scavenge
their meals but in fact they are also
fearsome predators when hunting as a
pack they can take down animals as big
out of Buffalo or even baby elephants a
mother won't pass up the opportunity for
an easy meal contrary to popular belief
a hyena is more likely to have its prey
stolen by a lion than the other way
round hyenas are formidable beasts built
for strength and endurance they're
incredibly muscular jaws are even more
powerful than a grizzly bears and with
highly concentrated stomach acid hyenas
can eat and digest entire carcasses
crushing and swallowing bones up to 7
centimeters thick quickly recycling
nutrients back into the environment this
ability to both hunt scavenge and
consume the parts of a carcass that
other animals leave behind has made them
a highly successful species loving
devoted and intelligent animals with a
strong sense of family perhaps it's time
we update our outdated perception of the
humble hyena
life is also about to change for the
cool foo clan before think he lead the
group out to forage there's a problem to
be dealt with her family are on edge
even partner Ningaloo stays out of the
way
pregnant klinke is on the warpath think
he spots her daughter mrs. McGee she has
decided that her day is in the group are
numbered mrs. McGee is about to be
punished
she tries to protect herself by being
submissive to her mother it's not going
to help
[Music]
thinking bites her viciously mrs. McGee
is not wanted
Tinky is merciless two more daughters
get the same treatment
linkie is vanishing into exile any
daughters who are or could become
pregnant but then if you spot something
BB the weakest of these daughters is
trying not to be noticed she almost gets
away with it
pinkey wants to make sure the group
raises just one set of offspring her own
they're all fighting for limited
resources any competition would put
clink his pups under threat she won't
let that happen
pinky has driven four of her daughters
out of the family they watchful only
from a safe distance life for them in
exile is going to be tough
however brutal this seems pinky is
prepared to go much further to protect
her unborn pups if she needs to
[Music]